  The topic of my paper will be focused on the general trend of “Smart City” projects across many areas of the US, and even globally as well. My research will analyze the scope of these projects, and the effects that they have on their inhabitants, the economy, and the environment.
  
	The research I have planned will include primarily academic journals, as the effects I’m hoping to study would require the expertise of scholars in specific fields, as well as the funding and resources that potentially come along with this. For instance, I plan to analyze the economic effects of the technologies that are often a part of Smart City projects, and particularly their effects on workers and people living in or near the area. Some specific effects that could be studied include the average wages of workers, the cost of living in the area, and a change in the type of jobs or average salary of jobs in the area.
  
	Another effect that could be studied which would require specific expertise is the environmental impacts of these projects. It is often claimed that Smart City projects strive to be “green”, but I believe some investigation into this claim is worthwhile. One goal of this research would be to try and quantify more precisely what positive or negative impacts these projects would have.
  
	A final aspect of the research, which may be feasible from articles, press releases, and other less formal writing would be to generally study the differences and similarities between these Smart City projects, and attempt to define, at least loosely, what it means to be a Smart City, and how this would differ from traditional city planning. This would require researching a variety of city projects across different locations, and comparing their scope and their effects in order to establish a sense of what the projects have in common, and what they do differently.


Milestones

1. Conduct initial research on the topic area, collecting a wide variety of sources. This step will likely include reading through the abstracts of many different papers to get a sense of their relevance to my research.

2. Narrow down the body of collected research to contain only the key papers and research which will be necessary for the project, keeping in mind the project’s scope. This will require a more thorough dive into the collected research, and also probably narrowing the scope of the paper to some extent.

3. Begin sketching out the structure of the paper, including the main focus of the final paper, and a rough estimate of what percentage of the final paper that each section will require. Practically speaking, this most likely means creating an outline of the final paper.

4. From the outline, begin incrementally writing the final paper. This will require multiple revisions, but will mostly be guided by the outline generated earlier.

5. Prepare material for the final presentation. This will require finding a way to summarize my research into a more condensed and accessible form, and will require me to likely pick a specific aspect of the research to focus on. This will also likely require creating presentation slides, and either practicing my delivery of the material, or writing a script to be recorded.
